docs/source/manual.rst, before:

Manual
======

Quick Start
-----------
To run the examples, just download the `data <fanova/example/online_lda.tar.gz>`_ and start the python console.
We can then import Fanova and start it by typing

    >>> from pyfanova.fanova import Fanova
    >>> f = Fanova("example/online_lda")

This creates a new Fanova object and fits the Random Forest on the specified data set. (Note: if you use data generated by SMAC, replace the above path with the path to the state-run directory)

To compute now the marginal of the first parameter type:

    >>> f.get_marginal(0)
        5.44551614362

Fanova also allows to specify parameters by their names.

    >>> f.get_marginal("Col0")
    5.44551614362

If you want to print all marginal at once, you can do that by:

    >>> f.print_all_marginals()

But be aware of that may take a while!


More functions
--------------

    * **Fanova.get_pairwise_marginal(param0, param1)**
     
    Returns the pairwise marginals of the two parameter **param0** and **param1**


    * **Fanova.get_all_pairwise_marginals()**

    Returns all pairwise marginals


    * **Fanova.get_most_important_pairwise_marginals(n)**

    Returns the **n** most important pairwise marginals


    * **Fanova.get_marginal_for_value(p, v)**

    Computes the mean and standard deviation of the parameter **p** for a certain value **v**



Visualization
-------------

To visualize the single and pairwise marginals, we have to create a visualizer object first

    >>> from pyfanova.visualizer import Visualizer
    >>> vis = Visualizer(f)

We can then plot single marginals by 

    >>> plot = vis.plot_marginal("Col1")
    >>> plot.show()

what should look like this

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/aaronkl/fanova/master/fanova/example/online_lda/Col1.png

The same can been done for pairwise marginals

    >>> vis.plot_pairwise_marginal("Col0", "Col2")

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/aaronkl/fanova/master/fanova/example/online_lda/pairwise.png


If you are just interested in the N most important pairwise marginals you can plot them through:

    >>> create_most_important_pairwise_marginal_plots(dir, N)

and Fanova will save those plot in dir. However, be aware that to create the plots Fanova needs to compute all pairwise marginal, which can take awhile!


At last, all plots can be created together and stored in a directory with

    >>> vis.create_all_plots("./plots/")

TODO:
plot_categorical_marginal


Start Fanova from CSV-file
--------------------------

If your data is stored in csv file, you can run Fanova with

    >>> from pyfanova.fanova_from_csv import FanovaFromCSV
    >>> f = FanovaFromCSV("/path_to_data/data.csv")

Please make sure, that your csv file has the form

    ====  ==== ==== ====
    X0    X1   ...  Y
    ====  ==== ==== ====
    0.1   0.2  ...  0.3  
    0.3   0.4  ...  0.6
    ====  ==== ==== ====

Start Fanova from HPOlib
--------------------------

It is also possible to run Fanova on data colleted by `HPOlib <https://github.com/automl/HPOlib>`_

    >>> from pyfanova.fanova_from_hpolib import FanovaFromHPOLib
    >>> f = FanovaFromHPOLib("params.pcs",["data.pkl"])

Commit message:

add small description how to merge state-run directories

docs/source/manual.rst, after:

Manual
======


.. role:: bash(code)
    :language: bash


Quick Start
-----------
To run the examples, just download the `data <fanova/example/online_lda.tar.gz>`_ and start the python console.
We can then import Fanova and start it by typing

    >>> from pyfanova.fanova import Fanova
    >>> f = Fanova("example/online_lda")

This creates a new Fanova object and fits the Random Forest on the specified data set. (Note: if you use data generated by SMAC, replace the above path with the path to the state-run directory)

To compute now the marginal of the first parameter type:

    >>> f.get_marginal(0)
        5.44551614362

Fanova also allows to specify parameters by their names.

    >>> f.get_marginal("Col0")
    5.44551614362

If you want to print all marginal at once, you can do that by:

    >>> f.print_all_marginals()

But be aware of that may take a while!


More functions
--------------

    * **Fanova.get_pairwise_marginal(param0, param1)**
     
    Returns the pairwise marginals of the two parameter **param0** and **param1**


    * **Fanova.get_all_pairwise_marginals()**

    Returns all pairwise marginals


    * **Fanova.get_most_important_pairwise_marginals(n)**

    Returns the **n** most important pairwise marginals


    * **Fanova.get_marginal_for_value(p, v)**

    Computes the mean and standard deviation of the parameter **p** for a certain value **v**



Visualization
-------------

To visualize the single and pairwise marginals, we have to create a visualizer object first

    >>> from pyfanova.visualizer import Visualizer
    >>> vis = Visualizer(f)

We can then plot single marginals by 

    >>> plot = vis.plot_marginal("Col1")
    >>> plot.show()

what should look like this

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/aaronkl/fanova/master/fanova/example/online_lda/Col1.png

The same can been done for pairwise marginals

    >>> vis.plot_pairwise_marginal("Col0", "Col2")

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/aaronkl/fanova/master/fanova/example/online_lda/pairwise.png


If you are just interested in the N most important pairwise marginals you can plot them through:

    >>> create_most_important_pairwise_marginal_plots(dir, N)

and Fanova will save those plot in dir. However, be aware that to create the plots Fanova needs to compute all pairwise marginal, which can take awhile!


At last, all plots can be created together and stored in a directory with

    >>> vis.create_all_plots("./plots/")


Start Fanova from CSV-file
--------------------------

If your data is stored in csv file, you can run Fanova with

    >>> from pyfanova.fanova_from_csv import FanovaFromCSV
    >>> f = FanovaFromCSV("/path_to_data/data.csv")

Please make sure, that your csv file has the form

    ====  ==== ==== ====
    X0    X1   ...  Y
    ====  ==== ==== ====
    0.1   0.2  ...  0.3  
    0.3   0.4  ...  0.6
    ====  ==== ==== ====

Start Fanova from HPOlib
------------------------

It is also possible to run Fanova on data collected by `HPOlib <https://github.com/automl/HPOlib>`_

    >>> from pyfanova.fanova_from_hpolib import FanovaFromHPOLib
    >>> f = FanovaFromHPOLib("params.pcs",["data.pkl"])


Fanova on merged SMAC runs
--------------------------

If you different SMAC runs on the same task and you can combine them and apply Fanova on the merged data set. This will make the result of Fanova more robout simply
because it has more data.

To merge different SMAC runs, you have to merge the different state-run order via SMAC's state-merge tool:
	
	:bash: /path_to_smac/util/state-merge --directories /path/state-run* --scenario-file scenario.txt --outdir merged_state_runs/

	
Afterwards you can start the Fanova with the path to the new state run directory (e.g. "merged_state_runs/") and it will use the merged data points.
